Now back in our project, let's add expressjs and you could also simply create a new project,
make sure to install nodemon though,
I will keep using that but I will get rid of the routes.js file because I will basically create
a brand new application you could say.
So therefore of course in the app.js file, I have to get rid of that import and that of course means I'm
now missing my route handler or my request handler here
but we'll work on this later.
So let's now install expressjs by running npm install --save,
now why not --save dev but --save? Because this will be a production dependency.
We don't just use that as a tool during development,
it will be an integral part of the application we ship and therefore, it definitely also has to be installed
on any server or any computer where we run our application once we deploy it,
it is a major piece of our application.
So let's install it as a production dependency with this command and the name of the package just is
express, so npm install --save express will install expressjs into our project.
Now once it is installed, you see an entry was added to the dependencies in our package.json file
here and now we can start using it and to use it, I'll go to my app.js file.
and here I will import express,
you can name that constant however you want of course but the package is just called express. Now
you can also of course group that together with the core module import,
I like to separate my node specific modules and the third party packages and also my own imports
if I have them with empty lines so that you can clearly see what's what
but this is not required.
So now express is imported
and now let's also get rid of that console log statement here,
you can create an express application and store it in a constant named app, though that name of course
is always up to you by running express as a function.
So put in other words, the express package seems to export a function in the end
and actually you can see this if you hold command or control in Windows and you click on the express
here, you're taken to the source code and there, you can actually see that in the end at the bottom of
the file,
it exports E and don't worry about that syntax here,
this is not javascript file, it's a definition typescript file but still it exports E which is this
function in the end. So it exports a function here
and therefore we execute it as a function
and this will initialize a new object, you could say where expressjs,
the framework will store and manage a lot of things for us behind the scenes,
so a lot of logic is in this app constant here.
Now the app here actually also happens to be a valid request handler, so you can pass app here to create
server
and if you do that and you run npm start, you will actually have a running server which of course will
not handle any requests though because we haven't defined any logic that should happen for incoming
requests,
app will basically not do anything at this point.
Well almost,
it does
one thing for you and that is it sets up a certain way of handling incoming requests that defines or
that is a key characteristic of expressjs and we'll have a look at that in the next lecture.